Raptor integration - feature branch (#3121)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/recommendations/raptor_integration/connector_installation_configuration.md

---
description: Step-by-step configuration procedure of the Raptor connector.
month_change: true
---

# Installation

> First, install the Raptor connector.

Reviewer: Link back in case of landing here from search
```suggestion
First, install the [Raptor connector](raptor_connector.md).
```

---
description: Step-by-step configuration procedure of the Raptor connector.
month_change: true
---

# Configuration procedure

> To configure the Raptor integration, follow a step-by-step procedure that allows you to activate the Raptor connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure the Raptor integration, follow the step-by-step procedure described below.
```

## Install Raptor connector

Before you can proceed to configuring the integration with Raptor, install the [Raptor](https://www.raptorservices.com/) connector.
To do it, run the following command:

``` bash
composer require ibexa/connector-raptor

> ```

Reviewer 2: Is Ibexa Messenger setup required, should it be mentioned?
It's used in the code, but not mentioned during the installation.

Reviewer 3: Messenger is already a dependency in composer.json, so it will be installed automatically.

Reviewer 3: Note: Server-side tracking requires Ibexa Messenger to be properly configured. The package is installed automatically as a dependency, but additional setup may be needed. Please refer to the Ibexa Messenger documentation for configuration details.

## SiteAccess-aware configuration

To configure the Raptor connector, use the `ibexa.system.<scope>.connector_raptor` configuration key in the `config/packages/ibexa_connector_raptor.yaml` file:

``` yaml

> [[= include_file('code_samples/recommendations/config/packages/ibexa_connector_raptor.yaml', 1, 14) =]]

Reviewer 2: Preview is broken, will this work? I think the include_file function is 0-based, is the `ibexa` key displayed?

```

- `enabled` - enables or disables the connector for a given scope, default value: `true`. If set to `false`, no tracking or recommendation requests are executed.

> - `customer_id` - an identifier used to authenticate requests to the recommendation engine. You can find this value as "Account number" in [Raptor Control Panel](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/).

Reviewer 2: I'd just link to "#Customer ID" from here, it explains it nicely

- `tracking_type` - defines how user events are sent to the tracking API. Default value: `client`. Possible values:

>     - `client` - tracking is executed in the browser using JavaScript snippets generated by [Twig functions](../../templating/twig_function_reference/recommendations_twig_functions.md) and included in templates. This approach may be blocked by ad blockers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `client` - tracking is executed in the browser using JavaScript snippets generated by [Twig functions](recommendations_twig_functions.md) and included in templates. This approach may be blocked by ad blockers.
```

    - `server` - tracking is handled on the backend, with events sent directly to the tracking API. It's not affected by ad blockers.

> - `recommendations_api_key` - an API key used to authenticate requests to the Recommendations API. This key allows the connector to retrieve personalized recommendations from the recommendation engine. You can find this value as "API key" in [Raptor Control Panel](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/).

Reviewer 2: Instead of linking to the control panel, I'd just link to the "#Recommendations API key" header which explains it nicely

---
description: To configure the Raptor integration, follow the step-by-step procedure described below.
month_change: true
---

# Configuration procedure

> To configure the Raptor integration, follow a step-by-step procedure that allows you to activate the Raptor connector.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To configure the [Raptor](https://www.raptorservices.com/) integration add-on, follow the step-by-step procedure below.
```

## Install Raptor connector

> Before you can proceed to configuring the integration with Raptor, install the [Raptor](https://www.raptorservices.com/) connector.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Before you can proceed to configuring the integration with Raptor, install the Raptor connector.
```

I think that links to explanations of notions should be attached to the first occurrences of such notions in the text.

To do it, run the following command:

``` bash
composer require ibexa/connector-raptor
```

!!! note

    The [Ibexa Messenger](background_tasks.md) package is installed automatically as a dependency, but must be configured to enable server-side tracking.
    See the Ibexa Messenger documentation for [configuration](background_tasks.md#configure-package) details.

## SiteAccess-aware configuration

To configure the Raptor connector, use the `ibexa.system.<scope>.connector_raptor` configuration key in the `config/packages/ibexa_connector_raptor.yaml` file:

``` yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/recommendations/config/packages/ibexa_connector_raptor.yaml', 0, 13) =]]
```

> - `enabled` - enables or disables the connector for a given scope, default value: `true`. If set to `false`, no tracking or recommendation requests are executed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `enabled` - enables or disables the connector for a given scope. Default value: `true`. If set to `false`, no tracking or recommendation requests are executed.
```

- `customer_id` - an identifier used to authenticate requests to the recommendation engine. You can find this value as ["Account number"](connector_installation_configuration.md#customer-id) in Raptor Control Panel.
- `tracking_type` - defines how user events are sent to the tracking API. Default value: `client`. Possible values:

>     - `client` - tracking is executed in the browser using JavaScript snippets generated by [Twig functions](recommendations_twig_functions.md) and included in templates. This approach may be blocked by ad blockers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - `client` - tracking is executed in the browser by using JavaScript snippets generated by the [Twig functions](recommendations_twig_functions.md) and included in the templates. This approach may be blocked by ad blockers.
```

    - `server` - tracking is handled on the backend, with events sent directly to the tracking API. It's not affected by ad blockers.
- `recommendations_api_key` - an API key used to authenticate requests to the Recommendations API. This key allows the connector to retrieve personalized recommendations from the recommendation engine. You can find this value as ["API key"](connector_installation_configuration.md#recommendations-api-key) in Raptor Control Panel.

> - `recommendations_api_url` (optional) - overrides the default Raptor address, do not set unless a custom endpoint is required.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `recommendations_api_url` (optional) - overrides the default Raptor address, do not set it unless a custom endpoint is required.
```
